Welcome to the Metorial Docs
This documentation provides an overview of the Metorial API and SDKs, including guides, references, and examples to help you get started.

Getting Started
Learn more about how to get set up with Metorial.

Quick Start
Get started with Metorial in minutes.

Deploy MCP Servers
Learn how to deploy a MCP server in your Metorial project.

Test MCP Servers
Learn how to test your servers in the Metorial dashboard.

Using MCP Servers
Learn how to use your deployed MCP servers.

Monitoring MCP Servers
Learn how to monitor your MCP servers.

For Developers
Explore the Metorial API and SDKs to build powerful applications and integrations with Metorial.

API Reference
Explore the Metorial API endpoints and methods.

JavaScript SDK
Integrate Metorial with your applications using our client libraries.

Python SDK
Integrate Metorial with your applications using our client libraries.

Manage API Keys
Create and manage API keys for your Metorial project.

Metorial API Reference
The Metorial API is a RESTful service with resource-oriented URLs. It consistently returns JSON-encoded responses and adheres to standard HTTP response codes. The API supports both URL-encoded and JSON-encoded request bodies, but JSON is the recommended format.

Each API key is tied to a specific environment within a project in your account. This enables interaction with either live or test data for your project.

Base URL
The base URL for the Metorial API is:

https://api.metorial.com
All API requests are made to this URL, with the appropriate endpoint appended.

Client Libraries
We offer first-party SDKs for the following programming languages:

JavaScript
Use Metorial with JavaScript or TypeScript. In browser, Node.js, and Deno environments.

These SDKs are open-source, and their repositories are available on our GitHub page. Feel free to contact us for assistance or to report issues.

Testing & Environments
You can create multiple environments for each project via the Metorial dashboard. Each environment has unique API keys, ensuring clear separation of data access.

Example: Your development API key will never access the production environment.
Any resources created using the API are linked to the environment associated with the provided API key.
Authentication
The Metorial API uses API keys for authentication, which you can generate from the Metorial dashboard. There are two types of API keys:

Publishable API Keys:
These keys allow access to public data, such as agent lists. They are safe for client-side usage and have the prefix metorial_pk_.

Secret API Keys:
These keys provide full access to your project and must be kept private. Never expose them in client-side code. They have the prefix metorial_sk_.

Using API Keys
Include the API key in the Authorization header using the Bearer scheme:

Authorization: Bearer metorial_pk_abc123
Rate Limits
To ensure fair usage, the Metorial API imposes rate limits. If exceeded, a 429 Too Many Requests response is returned. Rate limits vary by environment and access type:

General Limit: 1000 requests per IP address every 10 seconds.
Development Environment: 100 requests per API key every 10 minutes.
Production Environment: 5000 requests per API key every 10 minutes.
Contact us if your use case requires higher limits.

Errors
The Metorial API uses standard HTTP response codes to communicate success or failure:

200 OK: Successful request.
400 Bad Request: Invalid parameters or action.
401 Unauthorized: Invalid API key.
403 Forbidden: Insufficient permissions.
404 Not Found: Resource not found.
422 Unprocessable Entity: Validation failure; check request parameters.
429 Too Many Requests: Rate limit exceeded.
5xx Server Errors: Server issues; contact us for assistance.
Pagination
Endpoints returning lists support pagination. Responses include an items array (resources) and a pagination object:

{
  "items": [
    // resources
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "has_more_after": true,
    "has_more_before": false
  }
}
after and before query parameters:
To fetch the next or previous page, use the after or before query parameter with the ID of a record from the current page. Example:

GET /sessions?after=ses_0mcsv9nhnxIQdeTerz35SzF
has_more_after and has_more_before:
Boolean flags in the response indicating if there are more results after or before the current page.

Example response:

{
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "ses_0mcsv9nhnxIQdeTerz35SzF"
      // ...
    }
    // ...
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "has_more_after": true,
    "has_more_before": false
  }
}
Versioning
The Metorial API is versioned to ensure backward compatibility. Each environment has a default version, which you can change in the Metorial dashboard.

Additionally, the API version can be specified as a request header:

Metorial-Version: 2025-01-01
Resource Identifiers (IDs)
All API resources have unique identifiers. Some, like Actor IDs, can optionally be user-defined. Others, like Thread IDs, are generated by Metorial and include a type-specific prefix.

Example File ID: file_Rm4Mnheq2bfEPhBhP7SY

Example User ID: mus_0mclxtv45v1dMKihA88fqe

IDs are always fewer than 255 characters in length.